Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
sci-fi film called “Oblivion.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Fifty years after an alien race invades Earth,
humans have left and found a new home on Titan,
Saturn’s largest moon.
The alien race, the scavs, were defeated,
but the planet has been decimated.
The moon has been destroyed, cities have been
reduced to ashes, and most of the land is
uninhabitable.
Humans built the Tet, a massive satellite
orbiting the Earth serving as a temporary
space station before the migration to Titan.
Only two people remain on the planet, technician
Jack, and communication officer, Vika, stationed
on Tower 49.
They handle drone maintenance, protecting
hydro rigs that produce power for the new
colony by converting seawater into fusion
energy.
Automated drones watch over the hydro rigs,
and Jack ensures the drones function correctly.
Remnants of the alien scavs are still fighting,
destroying drones, and disrupting hydro rig
operations.
Jack and Vika are holding out on their last
task as they would be heading to Titan in
two weeks, or so they think.
Jack and Vika’s day starts, and Jack gets
into his aircraft, assessing the drones.
The Tet comes into range, and they start communicating
with their mission director, Sally.
Jack flies his aircraft, looking for drones
and seeing if they’re functional.
Jack then finds a downed drone, and he suspects
another scav sabotage.
Jack heads to the drone and fixes it, but
a scav watches from the shadows.
The drone goes back online but is unable to
detect the scav.
Jack worries that the scav attacks are getting
more frequent, seeing that the drone he repaired
had its fuel cell stolen.
Vika reassures him, saying they’ll be gone
soon anyway.
Jack then gets on his motorcycle to look for
a missing drone.
Jack hears a homing beacon sound coming from
a sinkhole and descends the hole to investigate.
Vika contacts Sally and requests a backup
drone to be sent to Jack’s location, as
the sinkhole could hide scavs.
Jack drops into the hole and finds himself
in a cavern.
He navigates through the hole, following the
beacon’s sound.
He’s surprised to see the sound is coming
from a device, not a drone, and realizes he’s
in a trap.
His foot gets caught in a rope and gets pulled,
but he breaks free and starts shooting at
the scavs.
He runs back to his rope and manages to pull
himself up, but the rope snaps, and he falls
back in.
Luckily, a drone has come to his rescue.
The drone scans the cavern, detecting multiple
scavs, and starts blasting.
It obliterates the scavs but turns its guns
on Jack.
Jack identifies himself as Tech-49, but the
drone still needs to scan him to verify.
Jack is relieved once the drone identifies
him and launches off.
Before heading out, Jack spots a book and
takes it back with him.
He arrives back on their tower and continues
repairing a faulty drone.
He examines a book but puts it away upon hearing
Vika approaching.
At supper, Jack happily shows Vika a plant
he found, but Vika throws it out the window.
Vika then scolds Jack for bringing in a possible
contaminant into their home.
At supper, Sally apologizes for disposing
of the plant.
She says they’re close to leaving, and they
can’t take any risks.
Jack says that he finds it odd how the scavs
seemed like they were trying to catch him,
not kill him.
Vika then heads into the pool for a swim,
and Jack tells her he wants her to go with
him to the surface.
He wants to show her a place.
Vika then pulls Jack into the water playfully,
and they share an intimate moment.
They begin kissing in the water, but Jack
sees another woman’s face.
They are awakened early the following day
by a massive explosion on the horizon.
Jack flies off to investigate, and they see
that one of the hydro rigs has been destroyed.
Jack surmises that the scavs may have weaponized
a stolen fuel cell and found a way to detonate
it inside the hydro rig.
Sally is disappointed that Jack and Vika have
lost over ten drones and a hydro rig to the
scavs.
Jack detects a strange signal from a different
location and heads there to investigate.
Vika sees the same thing and reports that
the signal is being directed into space.
Jack arrives at what appears to be the Empire
State building, now buried almost entirely
underground, with just its top part exposed.
Jack investigates and sees binoculars on the
building and gets a strange vision.
Jack breaks into the building and sees that
the scavs have placed a repeater on the radio
tower, using the building as an antenna.
Vika analyzes the signal and says it contains
coordinates for a location in the middle of
nowhere.
Worried that the scavs could be contacting
more aliens, Jack shuts the signal down.
Jack then does a perimeter sweep of their
area, careful to avoid radiation zones.
He starts flying between canyons, losing radio
contact with Vika and flies into a hidden
valley with lush forests, green fields, and
a small wooden cottage.
It appears that Jack had built this place
as his sanctum.
He still feels wary about heading to Titan
as he believes Earth is still his home.
Jack places the book he found earlier among
his collection and starts playing music.
He spends several hours enjoying the tranquility
and says he’d rather stay there.
Jack takes a nap and sees himself back on
the Empire State building in a time before
the scavs attacked, with the woman he saw
in the pool.
He jumps back awake and sees an object entering
the Earth from space.
Jack flies to the object and communicates
with Vika.
Vika says the object is landing in the same
area where the beacon coordinates were pointing
to.
She requests backup from Sally, but Sally
advises her to stand down as Sally would be
sending drones to investigate instead.
Before Vika can clarify the communication,
the Tet goes offline.
Jack arrives at the crash site and identifies
the fallen craft as a human spacecraft but
appearing to resemble something from before
the war with the scavs.
Sally orders Jack to return, concerned that
it could be another trap, but Jack opts to
investigate the site instead.
Vika watches from Jack’s aircraft’s cameras
and sees Jack darting around the debris-filled
site.
Jack reports back to Vika that escape pods
containing human survivors are scattered all
over the area.
Jack comes across one pod and sees that the
woman he’s been seeing in his dreams and
visions is inside.
Drones then arrive and start firing at the
pods.
Jack orders the drones to stop, but they continue
firing at the survivors.
One drone gets to the woman’s pod, but Jack
stands in its way, shooting at the drone.
The drone then decides to back off.
In the distance, scavs are watching Jack.
Jack returns to their tower with the pod,
and Vika is terrified.
The pod opens, and Vika says they have to
report everything to Sally.
Jack agrees, saying they should start with
the drones killing the survivors.
They transfer the woman to a bed, and she
wakes up.
Vika tends to her, giving her water.
The woman, Julia, starts asking questions,
and Vika tries her best to explain what has
happened.
They tell Julia that her ship had crashed
and she’s the only one who survived.
They also inform her that she’s been in
hibernation for at least sixty years.
Julia is dumbfounded, unable to comprehend
the information, and bolts out of bed, saying
she needs to get back to her ship.
The group later has dinner, and Julia refuses
to tell them anything about herself until
she gets her hands on her ship’s flight
recorder.
Jack then tells her about the scav invasion
and everything that has happened.
To their surprise, Julia starts giggling,
thinking this is all a joke.
Vika is visibly insulted.
Julia then realizes Jack isn’t joking.
Jack later talks with Vika, still thinking
about the drones shooting the survivors.
Vika ignores this and says she wants Julia
gone by the morning.
Jack then asks Vika if she remembers anything
before the mission and before they got their
memories wiped.
Jack asks if she remembers Julia, but Vika
reminds Jack that it was a scav beacon that
brought Julia back.
At dawn the following day, Jack speaks with
Julia, and she requests they return to the
crash.
Wanting to learn more about Julia and the
crew, Jack agrees.
As they rummage through the wreckage, and
Julia finds the flight recorder, but they
get ambushed by scavs.
Vika watches helplessly as scavs drag Jack
away.
She informs Sally, and Sally sends drones
immediately.
Jack finds himself bound to a chair, and a
man reveals himself from the darkness.
The man, Malcolm, tells Jack they have been
watching him.
Malcolm then asks Jack why he’s curious
about the world and asks what he’s trying
to find in old books.
Jack says there’s no use interrogating him
as his memories have been wiped.
Lights turn on, and Jack sees he’s in an
underground base surrounded by humans.
Malcolm shows him an old stealth helmet they
use to mask their voices.
He says it helps them hide from the drones,
which are programmed to eliminate humans.
Another man, Sykes, approaches and says they’re
wasting their time with Jack.
They take Jack and show him around their base.
Jack is in total disbelief as everything he’s
known being turned on its head.
A lone drone locates Jack’s D.N.A. signature,
and Vika is elated.
Malcolm reveals that the hydro rig’s destruction
was their doing and was achieved with a single
fuel cell.
Their ultimate plan is to send ten fuel cells
to the Tet in a stolen drone along with weapons-grade
plutonium to eliminate the alien threat once
and for all.
They only need Jack to rewire the drone they’ve
stolen.
Jack refuses, and they threaten Julia.
Before the altercation escalates, panic erupts
as a drone makes its way to their hideout.
Sykes and several men head out to take care
of the drone, but it starts firing at them.
Sykes fires a skillful shot, hitting the drone
at a specific spot, causing it to lose all
function completely.
Jack tells them they need to let him and Julia
go as the drones will keep returning.
Malcolm agrees, giving Jack back his motorcycle.
Malcolm tells Jack that the answers he’s
looking for lie in the radiation zones.
Jack and Julia then leave.
Jack heads for the Empire State building and
sends a message to Vika via the radio tower.
Vika intercepts the message and sends an aircraft
to retrieve Jack.
Having too many questions boggling his mind,
Jack demands answers from Julia.
Julia decides to tell Jack the truth.
She reveals that she was on a test flight
to Titan when her crew got orders to investigate
an object that appeared in deep space.
The crew went into hibernation, and Julia
says that Jack and Vika must have been the
first to wake up.
Jack is confused, but Julia continues, saying
the object they were sent to investigate was
the Tet.
Julia then tells Jack that she is his wife.
Julia tells him that it was there, that very
building, where he proposed to her.
Julia shows Jack her engagement ring, and
Jack remembers.
He remembers being on the Empire State building
with people before the scavs ever arrived.
The two hug but are cut short when the aircraft
arrives.
Vika sees Jack and Julia hugging through the
aircraft cameras and realizes she has lost
her partner.
Jack and Julia arrive back at the tower, and
Vika refuses them entry.
Jack tries to explain what happened to them
and about the humans in hiding.
Vika doesn’t believe him, thinking Julia
has manipulated Jack.
Vika then contacts Sally and tells her Jack
could no longer fulfill their duties and they
are no longer an ineffective team.
Sally acknowledges this, and the drone that
Jack had been repairing comes to life.
Jack tells Vika that they need to leave, but
Vika says she wants to go to Titan.
Suddenly, the drone appears and vaporizes
Vika.
The drone approaches Jack, but Julia shoots
the drone down using the aircraft guns.
Jack then heads to Vika’s office and finally
talks to Sally.
Sally apologizes, saying the drone had malfunctioned,
and orders Jack to deliver Julia to the Tet.
Jack realizes that Sally is acting unnaturally,
smiling and treating Vika’s death as a minor
accident.
Jack and Julia leave on the aircraft, but
drones are sent after them.
Jack tries maneuvering through a tight canyon
pass to lose the drones, but the drones keep
chase.
Jack hides behind a wall of water and waits
for the drones to pass them by.
As the drones pass, he pulls up behind them
and starts shooting.
Jack eliminates the first two drones with
relative ease, but the last drone starts smashing
into them.
Jack then flies through a small crevice, finally
leaving the third drone behind.
Unfortunately, they have strayed into the
radiation zone, and the aircraft loses all
power.
They drop from the sky, but Jack manages to
pull an ejection lever, and they touch down
with a hard landing.
Jack gets up to look at his downed aircraft
but sees someone has already arrived, inspecting
the crash.
He rushes to the man, shouting, but when he
approaches, he sees that the man is him.
Jack tries to calm the other man down, telling
him they need to shut down the downed drone,
but the man keeps his gun pointed at Jack.
Julia appears, and the man sees her, awakening
his memories.
Jack capitalizes and attacks the other Jack.
They struggle, and Jack tries to disarm the
other man, but they accidentally fire a shot.
Julia is late to realize that she has been
hit.
Jack finally overpowers the other man by placing
him in a leg lock.
After the other Jack loses consciousness,
Jack rushes to the drone and removes its power
cell.
He then rushes to Julia and sees she’s bleeding.
He rests Julia on a rock and races to the
other man’s aircraft, which he sees is from
Tower 52.
He ties up Tech-52 Jack and flies back to
the tower.
He arrives at the tower and takes medical
supplies.
On his way out, he runs into another Vika.
Vika greets him, unable to tell that he’s
a different Jack, and kisses him.
Jack then invites her to accompany him to
the surface, but she refuses.
Jack then leaves, headed for Julia.
He tends to Julia’s wounds and manages to
stop her bleeding.
Julia then awakens, finding herself in Jack’s
cottage.
Julia can’t help but smile, seeing that
even though Jack had lost his memories, a
part of him remains in the form of all the
things he’s collected.
She then talks to Jack and tells her that
it was their dream to build a small cottage
by a lake.
Jack says he is not the original Jack and
knows he is one out of countless other copies
but believes that he has loved Julia for as
long as he can remember.
The two then kiss and spend a night together
in bed.
The following day, Jack is preparing to leave.
He tells Julia he wishes they could stay at
the cottage forever, but he knows he needs
to return to the humans and help them defeat
the Tet.
Julia makes him promise to return to the cottage
once the fight is over, and he agrees.
They find themselves back at the human hideout,
and Malcolm welcomes them.
Back in Tower-49, Sally replays Vika’s earlier
transport when Jack went missing, and she
sends drones to look for Jack and the human
hideout.
Jack starts reprogramming the drone and places
the bomb inside.
Malcolm begins narrating how the alien invasion
truly happened.
He remembers seeing the moon get destroyed.
After some time, the Tet arrives.
Hundreds of thousands of copies of Jack came
and initiated the attack.
The copies were void of emotions, programmed
to kill.
The surviving humans succumbed to natural
disasters.
After the first wave of the invasion, the
Tet initiated phase two: resource farming.
For half a century, the hydro rigs sucked
the planet dry.
It was not until recently when Malcolm spotted
Jack collecting books when he realized that
humanity still had a chance.
When he saw Jack rescue Julia, he knew that
Jack’s memories would resurface.
Jack finishes rewiring the drone, and the
drone starts freaking out but calms down once
it identifies Jack.
They prepare to launch the drone, but the
drones that Sally sent arrive and start shooting
at the humans.
The drones enter the base, and chaos erupts.
The soldiers fight back, but the drones are
too fast and powerful.
Malcolm gets in a turret and starts hammering
a drone with bullets.
One drone corners Julia and a group of survivors,
but Sykes shoots the drone down.
Jack manages to eliminate the final drone
by shooting its weak spot.
The drone then explodes.
When the rubble clears, they find that Malcolm
had been wounded.
He tells them to send the drone, but Jack
tells him the drone had been decommissioned
during the fight.
Julia remembers that Sally had ordered Jack
to bring her to the Tet.
Julia offers to be brought up, hiding the
bomb in her hibernation pod.
Jack considers this and agrees.
They prepare themselves for the sacrifice,
and Julia gets into her hibernation pod along
with the bomb.
Jack gives her one final kiss before she lays
down.
Jack loads the pod into his aircraft and flies
to the Tet.
He plays Julia’s ship’s voice recorder
and finally hears what transpired before the
Tet took him.
It’s revealed that he and Vika were the
first ones to awake from hibernation, and
they were the ones who saw the Tet.
They weren’t a couple but were close friends.
The Tet hijacked their ship’s controls,
and they decided to eject the others who were
still in hibernation.
Jack and Vika end up being the only two people
getting sucked into the Tet.
The team they ejected were the same people
in the pods that the drones had all fired
upon.
It’s also revealed that Sally was a real
person in NASA, but the Tet must have mimicked
her somehow.
Jack now reaches the Tet with the hibernation
pod, and Sally lets him in.
The Tet interior appears empty, only populated
by a few drones.
Sally’s voice now appears distorted, sounding
more mechanical.
He sees the Tet lined with incubating humans,
all copies of him and Julia.
Jack then comes face to face with the Tet’s
core and brings out the hibernation pod.
He opens the pod and reveals that it’s Malcolm
he had brought along with him.
He then begins wiring up the bomb.
Back on Earth, Julia awakens and finds herself
in Jack’s cottage.
Sykes and the others see drones approaching
and prepare for an attack.
Jack and Malcolm detonate the bomb at the
Tet, and the Tet erupts into a massive fireball.
All the drones drop dead, and everyone on
Earth sees a bright flash in the sky.
Several years pass, and Julia is living happily
in the cottage with a daughter.
Sykes and the other arrive, but a person of
note is with them.
The Tech-52 Jack has survived and has spent
his time searching for Julia and the cottage
that Tech-49 Jack had built.
Tech-52 Jack finally finds Julia, her daughter,
and humanity’s new home.